=pod

=head1 NAME

B<nhss> - NetHack Sokoban Solver

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<nhss> [B<-rO>] I<levelfile> [I<recfile>]

B<nhss> B<-h>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<levelfile> is a file containing a L<nethack(6)> level like the one shown
below, and I<recfile> is an optional file in which B<nhss> should place
recorded moves.

Sokoban, in L<nethack(6)>, is an optional set of levels which resemble the
puzzle game sokoban.  You push boulders into pits, so you can walk to the next
staircase.  Unfortunately, there's no magic reset button, so you only get one
shot.

B<nhss> creates a L<nethack(6)>-like environment, which will read in the level
from a file, and allow the user to attempt to solve it, without messing up the
game.  It also records the user's moves each attempt, for replay after solving.

Useful?  Yep.

Cheating?  Only if you're completely rabid.

Part of why L<nethack(6)> is so cool (and hard) is that there is no capability
to reload old savegames (well, there is, if you cp them out of the savedir
before you start L<nethack(6)>, but that /is/ cheating =).  Using a program
like nhss to figure out sokoban (resetting a few times in the process) before
trying it in L<nethack(6)> is, in essence, reloading an old savegame.

On the other hand, there is no random element in the sokoban levels.  Using
nhss is like writing it down on paper, but more convenient.  I personally don't
consider it cheating.  

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h>

Display a usage summary & exit

=item B<-r>

Replay the moves stored in I<recfile> one at a time and wait for a keypress
between each move.

=item B<-O>

Display boulders as C<0> rather than C<`>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE LEVEL

    ------  -----
    |....|  |...|
    |.`..----.`.|
    |.`......`..|
    |..---@---`.|
    |---------.---
    |..^^^<|.....|
    |..----|`....|
    --^|   |.`...|
     |^-----.`...|
     |..^^^^`.`..|
     |..----------
     ----

=head1 AUTHOR

B<nhss> was written by iank <iank@iank.org>, and this manual page was "adapted"
from the README by jwodder <jwodder@sdf.lonestar.org>.

=cut
